# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


In the current state of the app, no feature is actually complete:
- Auth: You should implement the log out as soon as possible and maybe delete account in the near future.
- Events: You have spent many sprints on this and it is still far from finished, the screens have missing data, etc.
- Gamification: You should really start working on this actively if you want a basic version by M3.
- Offline mode/preferences: You should have some fonctionality while being offline and should cache settings/current user of the app.

However, we were very impressed by the bluetooth handshake, and the map working with Overpass is also very good.


For this part, you received 5.1 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


The figma is a good start but there is clear room for improvement in UI departement. A few things that could help: 
- Try to customize your map screen more as right now it's not clear what a user is looking at (custom markers for example, a better title or a search bar)
- You should probably choose a better color scheme, for example black text on a blue button is not very readable
- The add event screen could use a revamp

Your architecture diagram is missing the Nomatim dependency, there are two google auths that should be merged, etc, ... You should update it regurarly so it follows the state of the app.


For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


Overall the code quality is solid, your error handling is excellent. You understand MVVM practices well. Our main concern is the absence of stringResources in your code. You should really fix the asap. Similarly you should try to centralise your log tags.

For testing, we only found one meaningful end to end test, End2EndParks is too small to be considered a real end to end and most importantly in End2EndCreateEvent you actually make a network to firebase DB, which you never do in tests, always mock or fake or use the firebase emulator


The APK was smooth, no performance issues but we found some display errors when trying out the app.


For this part, you received 12.6 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


Your scrum board effectively conveys your vision of the app. You have a clear path for the future of your app. You have integrated the scrum board as a daily productivity tool. Make sure to convert your tasks to issues, small nitpick also a small number tasks have non-descriptive names


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


You've completely integrated scrum into your work process and we feel you're now completely independent. You've diligently filled in your scum documents which makes it very easy to follow along with your progress. Great job!


For this part, you received 3.9 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


You are somewhat consistently delivering some valuable improvements after each sprint. Nevertheless, you have had a sprint with a lot of code not merged into main and not improving your features by much. 


For this part, you received 1.2 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 4.86. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
