# Milestone M3: Team Feedback

This milestone M3 is the culmination of your SwEnt journey, and it gives us the final opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you performed in the project. By now, you should be capable of demonstrating a solid command of the Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork, and be able to deliver a high-quality, application that is ready for real users.
This feedback report is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback that you received from your coaches during the weekly meetings, over email, on Discord, etc.

You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M3 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M3.md) document.
As mentioned before, the standards for M2 were elevated relative to M1, and this progression continued into M3: we now hold you to the highest professional standard in SwEnt.

For this milestone, we looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

- Application
  - [Completeness](#app-completeness)
  - [Functionality](#app-functionality)
  - [User Experience](#app-user-experience)
- [Design and Implementation](#design-and-implementation)
- [Testing and CI Pipeline](#testing-and-ci-pipeline)
- Process
  - [Documentation](#process-documentation)
  - [Autonomy](#process-autonomy)

## App: Completeness

We first evaluated the depth and complexity of the main __epics__ in your app, along with their contribution to the app, the tangible value they provide to the user, and their alignment with the app’s goals.
We evaluated the extent to which your app meets the __course requirements__ articulated at the start of the semester, and whether they are implemented effectively, they integrate seamlessly, and are indeed essential to the app.
We then looked at the __robustness and completeness__ of the different features you implemented: are all the features finished and polished, are they secure and bug-free, and are they thoughtfully designed.


Your app has some very interesting features. The app had different epics that were finished/close to be finished. It supported basic offline features while still having some loopholes (being able to log out offline or add a rating). It uses different phone sensors and integrates them well into the apps goal. We were disappointed not being able to witness the bluetooth features that were implemented (we tested on 2 different phones but we didn't manage to make a proper handshake). There are also some very small residual bugs that could have been flagged and fixed but nothing too annoying for the user experience.


For this part, you received 6.3 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: Functionality

In this context, we assessed your app's ability to __handle unexpected inputs__ provided by clueless or malicious users (including spamming buttons, entering wrong inputs, stopping a process mid-way, etc.); we wanted to see that your app handles all edge cases gracefully, has comprehensive error handling, and includes robust mechanisms for maintaining stability under stress.

We then evaluated the performance and reliability of the final product, i.e., __the APK__: we wanted to see that your APK is stable and delivers excellent performance, the UI responds quickly and has seamless navigation.

Next we looked into your implementation of __user authentication and multi-user support__: does the app correctly manage users, can users personalize their accounts, does the app support session persistence, are multi-user interactions well supported, can a user recover a lost password, can accounts be used on another device, and is account information preserved when switching devices.


The app handled inputs well, you even went as far as implementing text moderation.
The APK ran pretty smoothly, with the some slight hiccups like app freezing when connectivity was bad. But other than that the app navigation was fluid 
The account management was okay but could be a bit more polished as the user cannot do a lot with his own account right now. There was a small bug with events numbers when deleting an account (the old events number still show in the map screen).


For this part, you received 6.6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: User Experience

For this part, we wanted to see how __intuitive and user-friendly__ the app is for real users. Beyond having good usability, did you pay attention to streamlining the interactions, is it easy to figure out, can new users start making good use of the app quickly, are the interaction flows well thought out and refined.


We really like your onboarding screens on account creation and also the different tutorials/help pop ups that you implemented on different screens. However,
the UI and overall flow however are not very intuitive. You need to navigate through a lot of buttons for example when setting up a search filter. Features like the bluetooth handshake do not provide a ton of feedback to the user on what is happening, so you aren't exactly sure if you did things correctly even if a pop up saying the request was sent appears. Also there are some small navigations bugs (in the event and park screens, we can create an infinite stack of screens).


For this part, you received 1.5 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Design and Implementation

We evaluated whether __your code is of high quality and employs best practices__, is it modular and robust, etc.
We expect the codebase to be polished, well documented, follow consistent conventions, be modular, and allow for easy modifications.
You should be able to employ advanced techniques by now, such as asynchronous functions (flows, coroutines), good resource management, and automated dependency injection (e.g., with Hilt).

We assessed your overall __app architecture and design__, looking in particular at aspects surrounding robustness and scalability.
We looked at both the codebase and the documentation of the app (Wiki and architecture diagram).
We expect your design to demonstrate thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth.


Your codebase is very clean overall, you put a lot of effort into the different design patterns that you learned/used and integrated. You have a clear understanding of how to make an app with a proper architecture and incorporated some of our feedback directly. Your app is fairly easily maintainable and scalable (with some small refactors before on 2-3 things).


For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Testing and CI Pipeline

The first aspect we looked at here was your __test suite__, in terms of both quality and the final line coverage.
We expect testing the be rigorous and to cover all components and edge cases, and they should validate every significant user journey.
Line coverage should be getting close to 90%.
Your end-to-end tests should be detailed and include error-handling scenarios.
The tests should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
Finally, your test suite should demonstrate  advanced techniques, mock data for performance testing, and automated regression tests.

We then considered the quality of your __repository setup and the CI pipeline__, and how professional it is and how easy it is for new developers to bring contributions to the project.
We expect your repository to have a logical structure, use consistent naming, and take full advantage of CI (code quality checks, linting, formatting, etc.)
Ideally, you should also have automated performance testing, deployment pipelines, and the CI should provide detailed feedback for developers.


Testing wise you do a pretty job regularly achieving 80% regularly. On some PRs you could have pushed for a bit more especially on UI PRs. For end to end tests we found4 but two of them where @Ignored so we couldn't really count them as valid.

The CI and repo are clean so great job here!


For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Process: Documentation

We looked at your `README` and GitHub Wiki to evaluate the quality and completeness of __your app’s documentation__. We expect the README and Wiki to be thorough and achieve professional-level clarity and completeness.
They should provide detailed descriptions of the app's architecture, implementation of the features, and the development setup.
We also assessed __your use of Figma and the architecture diagram__ for effective UI design, organization, and app structure planning.
By this stage, we expect your Figma to be complete, up-to-date, and to include UI elements for future features, showing foresight and organization.
The architecture diagram should be comprehensive, providing a clear and detailed overview of the app structure and dependencies.
The architecture should be robust, scalable, and optimized for performance, security, and future development.


Your overall project documentation (README, wiki, figma and architecture diagram) make it easy for a newcomer to understand the main goals of the app and to contribute with by using the same conventions as you. The README is exemplary and offers a lot of information to what your app currently does and what would be your goals in the future if you continued developping it. The figma is up to date with the app state (small things that are in the figma and not in the app). Otherwise, great architecture diagram!


For this part, you received 3.8 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Process: Autonomy

A primary goal of SwEnt is to teach you how to __function autonomously as a team__.
For this part of the evaluation, we assessed you team’s independence, spanning Sprint 6 to Sprint 10, based on the meetings with coaches, Sprint planning, and how you managed risk.
By this stage, coaches should no longer be necessary for the team to operate, i.e., you can organize yourselves, you don't need to be reminded about tasks, and you can conduct the Scrum ceremonies on your own.


The team has always been consistent with the scrum process. You implemented it well and managed yourself very autonomously. Good job this semester!


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M3 is 5.15.

The entire SwEnt staff wishes you the very best in your career, and we look forward to seeing you do great things with what you learned this semester.